#99: Provide options for release runs (#100)
exasol/script-languages-container-ci: doc/user_guide/user_guide.md

---

### Required CI files

The CLI commands expect to be called within a Script-Languages directory, which must contain the following directories and files:

```
├── flavors
│   ├── flavor_a
│   │   ├── flavor_base
│   │   │   ├──...
│   │   ├── ci.json
│   │   ...
├── build_config.json
```

There must exist at least one flavor directory (`flavor_a` in the example above) with the respective `ci.json` file.
The `build_config.json` contains build parameter, which are independent of the flavors.

#### Flavor `ci.json`

This file contains flavor specific build information:

- `build_runner`: The Github build runner to be used for building the Script-Languages-Container of the respective flavor
- `test_config`: Test specific build information:
  - `default_test_runner`: The Github runner to be used for running the tests
  - `test_sets`: A set of tests which should run within the same matrix build
    - `name`: The name of the test set
    - `folders`: The list of folders with tests within the test container (usually `test_container/tests/test`) which will be executed. If not empty, the enty `generic_language_tests` should be empty.

>     - `goal`: The release goal, to be used for running the tests. The release goal is defined in the `build_steps.py`. The release goal needs to be exported during the command `export-and-scan-vulnerabilities`. Currently only two goals are exported and can be used for the tests: `release` and `base_test_build_run`. The reason the goal `base_test_build_run` is supported, are the linker namespace tests. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `goal`: The release goal, to be used for running the tests, either `release` or `base_test_build_run`, see details below.
```

    - `generic_language_tests`: A list of generic language tests. If not empty, the entry `folders` should be empty.
    - `test_runner`: The specific Github runner for the test set. If set, it overwrites the `default_test_runner`. It allows the usage of more expansive Github runner (for example GPU runner) for specific tests

>     - `accelerator`: This option is forwarded to `exaslct`'s `run-db-test` command. It allows starting the docker-db with an accelerator enabled.

Reviewer: Could you add a link here? 
* What is an "accelerator"?
* Which values can be used?

>     - `accelerator`: This option is forwarded to `exaslct`'s `run-db-test` command. It allows starting the docker-db with an accelerator enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `accelerator`: SLC-CI forwards this option to `exaslct` command [run-db-test](https://github.com/exasol/script-languages-container-tool/blob/main/doc/user_guide/user_guide.md#testing-with-an-accelerator), example value `nvidia`.
```

> Here is an example file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Only one of either `folders` or `generic_language_tests` should have a non-empty value.

Release goals are defined by the return values of method `get_build_step()` in file `build_steps.py` of each flavor. Currently SLC-CI command `export-and-scan-vulnerabilities` only exports two goals: `release` and `base_test_build_run`. The second goal is for running test regarding linker namespaces.

Here is an example file:
```

```json
{
  "build_runner": "ubuntu-22.04",
  "test_config": {
    "default_test_runner": "ubuntu-22.04",
    "test_sets": [
      {
        "name": "integration-test",
        "folders": ["some_tests"],
        "goal": "release",
        "generic_language_tests": []
      },
      {
        "name": "integration-test-for-base_test_build_run",
        "folders": ["some_tests"],
        "goal": "base_test_build_run",
        "generic_language_tests": []
      },
      {
        "name": "integration-test-gpu",
        "folders": ["gpu_tests"],
        "goal": "release",
        "generic_language_tests": [],
        "test_runner": "int-linux-x64-4core-gpu-t4-ubuntu24.04-1",
        "accelerator": "nvidia"
      }
    ]
  }
}

```

#### `build_config.json`

> This file contains flavor independent information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file contains flavor-independent information:
```

> - `ignore_paths`: A list of folders which will avoid building the Script-Languages-Container during CI

Reviewer: I don't understand the sentence. 

A folder cannot avoid anything. 
Maybe try to explain, what "ignore" means. I.e. the folder will be ignored. 
For what  / by whom?
What could be the motivation for ignoring a folder?

> - `docker_build_repository`: A Docker repository where the intermediate build docker images will be uploaded. This allows inspection of the Docker containers later, if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `docker_build_repository`: A Docker repository where slc-ci uploads the intermediate docker images to. This allows inspecting and reusing the Docker containers later.
```

> - `docker_release_repository`: A Docker repository where the release docker images will be uploaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `docker_release_repository`: A Docker repository where the final release docker images will be uploaded.
```

> - `test_container_folder`: The folder name containing the test container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `test_container_folder`: Name of the folder containing the test container.
```

- `test_config`: Test-specific build information:
  - `default_test_runner`: The Github runner to be used for running the tests
  - `test_sets`: A set of tests which should run within the same matrix build
    - `name`: The name of the test set
    - `folders`: The list of folders with tests within the test container (usually `test_container/tests/test`) which will be executed.
    - `goal`: The release goal, to be used for running the tests, either `release` or `base_test_build_run`, see details below.
    - `generic_language_tests`: A list of generic language tests.
    - `test_runner`: The specific Github runner for the test set. If set, it overwrites the `default_test_runner` enabling to use different Github runners for running specific tests, e.g. for minimizing costs.
    - `accelerator`: SLC-CI forwards this option to `exaslct` command [run-db-test](https://github.com/exasol/script-languages-container-tool/blob/main/doc/user_guide/user_guide.md#testing-with-an-accelerator), example value `nvidia`.

Only one of either `folders` or `generic_language_tests` should have a non-empty value.

> Release goals are defined by the return values of method `get_build_step()` in file `build_steps.py` of each flavor. Currently SLC-CI command `export-and-scan-vulnerabilities` only exports two goals: `release` and `base_test_build_run`. The second goal is for running test regarding linker namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Release goals are defined by the return values of method `get_build_step()` in file `build_steps.py` of each flavor. Currently SLC-CI command `export-and-scan-vulnerabilities` only exports two goals: `release` and `base_test_build_run`. The second goal is for running tests regarding linker namespaces.
```

    ]
  }
}
```

#### `build_config.json`

This file contains flavor-independent information:
- `ignore_paths`: The CI will skip building and testing the SLC if the changes of the PR / Push include only files in directories given by this parameter.
- `docker_build_repository`: A Docker repository where slc-ci uploads the intermediate docker images to. This allows inspecting and reusing the Docker containers later.
- `docker_release_repository`: A Docker repository where the final release docker images will be uploaded.
- `test_container_folder`: Name of the folder containing the test container.

> - 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

  --docker-user ${{ secrets.DOCKER_USER }} \
  --docker-password ${{ secrets.DOCKER_PASS }} \

>   --github-output-var VULN_SCAN_RESULT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  --github-output-var VULN_SCAN_RESULT \
```

- `--docker-user TEXT`
- `--docker-password TEXT`
- `--github-output-var TEXT`

> - `--release/--no-release`: If True, the "docker_release_repository" entry of `build_config.json` will be used for uploading the Script-Languages container image. Otherwise, the "docker_release_repository" will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `--release`: Use the "docker_release_repository" entry of `build_config.json` for uploading the Script-Languages container image. 
- `--no-release`: Use the "docker_build_repository"
```

Additional question, as the CLI option is optional: Which is the default?

> - `--release/--no-release`: If True, the "docker_release_repository" entry of `build_config.json` will be used for uploading the Script-Languages container image. Otherwise, the "docker_release_repository" will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `--release`: If specified, then run `export-and-scan-vulnerabilities` in mode _release_, always re-building all Docker images and publishing the images to "docker_release_repository". Otherwise only rebuild outdated Docker images and publish them to "docker_build_repository".
```
